security policy best practices (#639)
128technology/docs: docs/sec_security_policy.md

When creating a new security policy within the SSR, the SSR will automatically generate random values for the key and IV and store them securely within the device. It is not recommended to manually supply values for these attributes as this _may_ compromise the security of the network.

* The security policy defined in the `service > security-policy` serves to encrypt and decrypt the payload of packets within a session. The encryption keys and algorithms defined at the service are always symmetric between SSR nodes.
* A security policy can be defined in `network-interface > inter-router-security`. This security policy defines how metadata and HMAC are **decrypted** for SVR traffic received on the respective interface.
* Lastly, a security policy can be defined on `network-interface > adjacency > inter-router-security`. The security policy associated with the adjacency defines what keys and **encryption** algorithm will be used for encrypting traffic sent to a SVR peer.

### Best Practices

> While the SSR affords you the ability to provision a unique security policy per service, in a typical hub-and-spoke topology, a single security policy can be shared among all services, with a separate security policy used for metadata encryption and authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SSR affords you the ability to provision a unique security policy per service. However, in a typical hub-and-spoke topology, a single security policy can be shared among all services, with a separate security policy used for metadata encryption and authentication.
```

> While the SSR affords you the ability to provision a unique security policy per service, in a typical hub-and-spoke topology, a single security policy can be shared among all services, with a separate security policy used for metadata encryption and authentication.

Reviewer 2: Maybe also mention that the best practices for inter-node policy is to leave it unencrypted? Current defaults enable it, but in reality that's what we tell people AFAIK

## Changing a Security Policy
Changing a security policy is a service impacting event as it is not possible to alter security keys and encryption ciphers for existing flows. Care must be taken to understand the blast radius of these changes. It goes without saying, but you must understand the security policy that needs to change and how it is being used for services and peer paths. If altering the global security policy that is used for all services, all traffic will be impacted. Sessions will not be terminated and reestablished; rather they will follow their own life cycle and the new policy will take effect for subsequent sessions. Changing a security policy should always be performed during a maintenance window after fully understanding the overall impact to the environment. Due to the fact that sessions are not terminated on security policy change, long-lived flows may need to be manually terminated in order for them to take on the properties of the new policy.

> The best approach to making any change to a security policy is to create a new policy, with a new name, and apply it to the respective service, interface or adjacency. Doing so affords network administrators the ability to readily identify sessions that may not have adopted the new policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best approach to making any change to a security policy is to create a new policy, with a new name, and apply it to the respective service, interface, or adjacency. This affords network administrators the ability to readily identify sessions that may not have adopted the new policy.
```

> After applying the change, be sure to restart the SSR on any routers that share the same security policy to clear any active sessions. Once the sessions have been cleared, ensure that traffic is traversing the service as expected:

Reviewer 2: Instead of `Once the sessions have been cleared`, maybe `after the ssr is back up` or something... to just make sure they don't just clear sessions...

```
admin@node0.0200017bb97d# show  service contains-service-name any
Wed 2023-11-15 17:25:55 UTC
✔ Retrieving service information...

========= =========== =========== ================ ================ ======= ========== ============== ==============
 Service   Prefixes    Transport   Tenant Allowed   Service-Policy   State   Sessions   Tx Bandwidth   Rx Bandwidth
========= =========== =========== ================ ================ ======= ========== ============== ==============
 any       0.0.0.0/0   -           trusted-lan      any-sp           Up           119   23.56 kbps     23.59 kbps

Completed in 0.12 seconds
```

> Identify the sessions traversing the service, paying particular attention to those with an uptime greater than the time of the configuration change. If sessions exist with an uptime greater than the time of the `delete sessions` command, be sure to execute the `delete sessions` command again and confirm that they have been cleared.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Identify the sessions traversing the service, specifically looking for those with an uptime greater than the time of the configuration change. If sessions exist with an uptime greater than the time of the `delete sessions` command, execute the `delete sessions` command again and confirm that they have been cleared.
```

 48e2d02a-cd65-43b7-b3f5-621c91525426   fwd   any       trusted-lan   ge-0-1     ge-0-1_400    400   TCP     172.16.1.11.2      62360   162.159.6.1.3         443   192.168.0.247       37993   False           677   0 days 0:21:11
 48e2d02a-cd65-43b7-b3f5-621c91525426   rev   any       trusted-lan   ge-0-0     ge-0-0          0   TCP     162.159.61.3         443   192.168.0.247       37993   0.0.0.0                 0   False          1078   0 days 0:21:11
 1fa9a14d-b216-4c4f-93da-efdaef25d61c   fwd   any       trusted-lan   ge-0-1     ge-0-1_400    400   TCP     172.16.1.11.2      62403   140.82.11.2.25        443   192.168.0.247       38028   False           670   0 days 0:20:30
 1fa9a14d-b216-4c4f-93da-efdaef25d61c   rev   any       trusted-lan   ge-0-0     ge-0-0          0   TCP     140.82.112.25        443   192.168.0.247       38028   0.0.0.0                 0   False           790   0 days 0:20:30
```

Sample some of the newly created sessions and confirm that the new security policy is in effect by examining the output of `show sessions by-id`.

:::info
Note the output of:<br/>

> `Forward Flows > Metadata Security Policy` which comes from the configuration `network-interface > adjacency > inter-router-security`, which is the metadata encryption policy<br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Forward Flows > Metadata Security Policy`: This comes from the configuration of `network-interface > adjacency > inter-router-security`, which is the metadata encryption policy.<br/>
```

> `Payload Security Policy` which comes from the configuration `service > security-policy`, which is the payload encryption policy<br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Payload Security Policy`: This comes from the configuration `service > security-policy`, which is the payload encryption policy.<br/>
```

> `Reverse Flows > Decrypt Security Policy` which comes from the configuration `network-interface > inter-router-security`, which is the metadata decryption policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Reverse Flows > Decrypt Security Policy`: This comes from the configuration `network-interface > inter-router-security`, which is the metadata decryption policy.
```

---
title: Security Policies
sidebar_label: Security Policies
---

The Session Smart Router - or SSR, should have been called the SSSR for Secure Session Smart Router, but folks in tech love TLAs. By design, the SSR will only forward packets to a destination upon creation of a policy. Once a routed path exists within the network, it is important to ensure that the payload is encrypted to keep data safe. Even though more and more traffic is being natively encrypted, there is still content that is sent over untrusted networks without encryption, or without the additional layers of encryption necessary to thwart bad actors. The SSR offers a policy-driven approach to defining the level of encryption needed per service and per path.

While there are many aspects to security, the focus of this document is the security of payload and metadata encryption between SSRs.

> Metadata is encrypted and decrypted between SSR routers, but payload encryption is performed end-to-end. This is illustrated in a multi-hop router deployment by the image below.

Reviewer 3: Possibly a minor nit, but I have been told that this is not true unless the original session was using UDP or TCP. For all other transports like ICMP and ESP it is decrypted and re-encrypted hop by hop though I'd need Engineering to confirm that. Also, I have heard that if we implement inline security rekeying everything would be decrypted/re-encrytped hop by hop though that is not currently in product.

When creating a new security policy within the SSR, the SSR will automatically generate random values for the key and IV and store them securely within the device. It is not recommended to manually supply values for these attributes as this _may_ compromise the security of the network.

There are three locations where security policies can be defined:
* The security policy defined in the `service > security-policy` serves to encrypt and decrypt the payload of packets within a session. The encryption keys and algorithms defined at the service are always symmetric between SSR nodes.
* A security policy can be defined in `network-interface > inter-router-security`. This security policy defines how metadata and HMAC are **decrypted** for SVR traffic received on the respective interface.
* A security policy can be defined on `network-interface > adjacency > inter-router-security`. The security policy associated with the adjacency defines what keys and **encryption** algorithms are used for encrypting traffic sent to an SVR peer.

> * A security policy can be defined in `router > inter-node-security`. This security policy defines the encryption for HA interfaces used for inter node communication.

Reviewer 3: As a point of clarity, I believe this is just responsible for encrypting metadata (and hmac signing packets) through the HA interface. It is akin to the inter-router-security policy just for traffic between the two nodes of an HA router and not between two routers.

* The security policy defined in the `service > security-policy` serves to encrypt and decrypt the payload of packets within a session. The encryption keys and algorithms defined at the service are always symmetric between SSR nodes.
* A security policy can be defined in `network-interface > inter-router-security`. This security policy defines how metadata and HMAC are **decrypted** for SVR traffic received on the respective interface.
* A security policy can be defined on `network-interface > adjacency > inter-router-security`. The security policy associated with the adjacency defines what keys and **encryption** algorithms are used for encrypting traffic sent to an SVR peer.
* A security policy can be defined in `router > inter-node-security`. This security policy defines the encryption for HA interfaces used for inter node communication.

### Best Practices
The SSR affords you the ability to provision a unique security policy per service. However, in a typical hub-and-spoke topology, a single security policy can be shared among all services, with a separate security policy used for metadata encryption and authentication.

> HA interfaces between SSR nodes are directly connected between nodes and therefore pose no risk of interception. Given the additional computational cost of encrypting and decrypting traffic, it is recommended to not apply any security policy to `inter-node-security`.

Reviewer 3: Example:
`        security  encrypt-hmac-disabled
            name                 encrypt-hmac-disabled
            description          "Encryption and message authentication disabled"
            hmac-cipher          sha256
            hmac-key             (removed)
            encryption-cipher    aes-cbc-128
            encryption-key       (removed)
            encryption-iv        (removed)
            encrypt              false
            hmac-mode            disabled
            adaptive-encryption  false
        exit
`
